# KakuroSolver
School project, implementing Kakuro Solver in Prolog.

The program should be using "heuristic" approach - It checks the shared cells that were previously generated by other hints, and tries to use their values. If the given cell was not generated yet, it tries to fill it by the greatest number possible (if it's unique and the sum is still not satisfied). Also, in the final step it automatically fills the cell with the rest to the given Sum.  

The program is working well (I believe :)) on 3x3 to 9x8 kakuros - or at least, these are the sizes that I have tried. Four basic kakuros are implemented in the program as kakuro(1..4, Board).  
Source for other games: _http://www.kakuros.com/_  

**Format of games:**  

All possible games are "saved" in predicates "kakuro(Number, Board)" where Number is a unique index to hints(List) and 
Board is a given kakuro board with cells in following format:   
 - "o" - means empty placeholder cell  
 - control(X, Y) - control cell, controlling Sums in hints(List) at given indices X, Y  

You also have to save the hints(Index, List) in the corresponding predicate. The format is as follows:
hints(Index, [[oo],[Sum1,[X1, Y1],[X2,Y2],...] [Sum2,...]...]), where:
- Index is the index to the corresponding board
- [oo] is a placeholder control cell, used for incomplete control cells, must be first in every hints list
- SumN is N-th sum, where N is index used in control cells
- following tuples are indices to board that must fill the Sum

The game also needs to define the hintsFreeCells(Index, List), because this version fills the board hint by hint, not in a straight-forward way.   
List has the following format: [[Sum1, _, _,...],[Sum2,...],...] where:  
- SumN is the N-th sum, same as in hints  
- instead of tuples of coordinates to board, there are free variables (that are later inserted to board)  

Example usage:   
?- kakuro(4,_).  
|__o__|__o__|__o__|05\oo|08\oo|__o__|__o__|__o__|  
|__o__|14\oo|05\06|__4__|__2__|22\oo|__o__|__o__|  
|oo\27|__9__|__4__|__1__|__6__|__7__|09\oo|__o__|  
|oo\06|__5__|__1__|__o__|14\13|__9__|__4__|__o__|  
|__o__|__o__|10\oo|22\20|__9__|__6__|__5__|__o__|  
|__o__|oo\21|__9__|__7__|__5__|__o__|09\oo|03\oo|  
|__o__|oo\07|__1__|__6__|13\oo|03\06|__5__|__1__|   
|__o__|__o__|oo\22|__9__|__6__|__1__|__4__|__2__|   
|__o__|__o__|__o__|oo\09|__7__|__2__|__o__|__o__|  
true .  
